# Play That! music player

#### Video Demo Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=St2nXp-8KkY

#### Distinctiveness and Complexity: 

###### My web app is a music player application and I feel as though we have not done anything similar in this class that would constitute a failure of the distinctiveness and complexity guideline. I will go into greater detail of all files included to provide further evidence of distinctiveness and complexity. I used Django framework together with some of the other tools we have learned about through the course, such as CSS, html, and JavaScript. I used some similar concepts that we learned about throughout the different projects and applied/modified them to my web app. Bootstrap was used so there will be some similarity there as well. Looks aside, functionality is distinct enough I believe to qualify for this requirement.

#### How to Use:

###### Fairly simple to use. First, user needs to register/login or login if already registered. On homepage you will eventually see what songs have been added which should be blank to start. You can go to Add Song page at top of screen to add a new song. Once button is clicked, it will redirect to new html page with forms to fill out for new song info including title, artist, image link, audio file, and category. Once song is added it will appear on the home page with a box view of the image with artist name and song title underneath, with a button to veiw in further detail. If View Detail button is clicked it will take tyou to an individual song page based on that song's matching id. Song page will include box view of song details as well as play/pause button and time seeker. At top of page, there will be a like button, once clicked will change to unlike button. If song is liked then will be added to liked songs database, which can be accessed via Liked Songs button at top of page. Liked Songs page is user specific. On homepage, user can also organize via category based on each song's category id. Once category is selected, only songs from that category will show.

#### Description of Files Included:

###### Django framework used with JS, CSS, SQLite and HTML. Capstone folder contains static/template folders, models.py, urls.py, and views.py amongst a few others. Musicplayer folder contains settings.py amongst a few others that were adjusted to fit capstone folder. Settings adjusted to fit capstone and allow media playback. DB adjusted using DB browser. Static folder includes JS file and CSS file. JS file, player.js, contains front end code to make the song page interactive. Includes a Play/Pause button that changes on click. Time seeker that allows progress change on song. CSS file, styles.css, contains front end code to make pages look cleaner. Contains code for all html pages in templates folder.

###### Templates folder includes all relevant html files for web app. Contains layout.html used in all pages which has an active navbar allowing user to change between pages. index.html which loads layout and whatever songs user has uploaded, and has a category filter to change categories and affiliated songs with view in detail button which takes user to song/id. login/register.html alowing user to register and login/logout. addsong.html allows user, once registered/logged in, to upload a song. User can upload Artist Name, Song Title, Image Link, Audio File, and Select a Category. Once added, song uploads to All Songs and Index for user. song.html uses player.js script to make song in selection interactive. CSS allows for some styling to make it look a bit better. Song page has song in a box in center with image, artist, title, play/pause, seek. At the top of song page, option to like/unlike song. Once clicked, changes to opposite, if liked goes to Liked Songs. likedsongs.html contains any songs liked from song id page. If unliked from song id page, then removed from Liked Songs page. likedsongs.html contains same info as index and all songs but only for user liked songs. Paginate included on all applicable pages.

###### admin.py contains models created in models and allows superuser access. models.py includes classes for User, Category, and Song. Category requests a category name and returns a category name. Song requests title, artist, image, audio, existing, owner, category(from Category), liked and paginate_by. Returns songs title including info on backend. apps.py updated to reflect capstone. urls.py includes all paths to views needed including index, login, logout, register, add song, song id page, liked songs pages, like song id page, unlike song id page, and view category.

###### views.py defines all functions listed in urls.py. index function requests data for all songs and all categories as well as allowing the page to use the paginator feature to change to next/previous page. login_view function allows user to login using register name and password via POST method, then redirects back to user's index page or error message if incorrect login. logout_view function to logout if already logged in. register function allows user to register via POST if not already registered, once registered user can log in/log out. User must confirm password or error. view_category fucntion allows user to toggle between applicable categories on index/all songs and add song page via POST. add_song function allows user to upload audio file via GET, page reqests title, artist, image, audio file, and category from user. Add song button once all info submitted and song gets saved to database and starts showing on index/all songs. song function allows user to access specific song page and view songs data which includes the image, artist, title, and allows user to press play and like/like songs. like_song and unlike_song function allow users to like or unlike a song and send it to liked songs page if liked. likes_songs function allows users to view any songs that they have like from index/all songs page.

###### Once again, Thank you for offering this class and others to the public! Thanks to Brian and David, and their other colleagues, for making me feel like an imposter everytime I learned something new. You have taught me so much and I have gained invaluable skills/abilities that I wasn't sure I could possess. Learning programming has felt like something I should have done long ago but am still grateful I have the ability to do so now through these courses. I am looking forward to continuing my journey in the new year and hopefully many years going forward.

## HAPPY NEW YEAR!!!